---
publish-telecom: true
---

NOTE – (Tutorial) This subclause gives precision to the term "non-negative-binary-integer encoding", putting the integer into a field which is a fixed number of bits, a field which is a fixed number of octets, or a field that is the minimum number of octets needed to hold it.

**11.3.1** Subsequent subclauses refer to the generation of a non-negative-binary-integer encoding of a non-negative whole number into a field which is either a bit-field of specified length, a single octet, a double octet, or the minimum number of octets for the value. This subclause (11.3) specifies the precise encoding to be applied when such references are made.

**11.3.2** The leading bit of the field is defined as the leading bit of the bit-field, or as the most significant bit of the first octet in the field, and the trailing bit of the field is defined as the trailing bit of the bit-field or as the least significant bit of the last octet in the field.

**11.3.3** For the following definition only, the bits shall be numbered zero for the trailing bit of the field, one for the next bit, and so on up to the leading bit of the field.

**11.3.4** In a non-negative-binary-integer encoding, the value of the whole number represented by the encoding shall be the sum of the values specified by each bit. A bit which is set to "0" has zero value. A bit with number "n" which is set to "1" has the value $2^n$.

**11.3.5** The encoding which sums (as defined above) to the value being encoded is an encoding of that value. NOTE – Where the size of the encoded field is fixed (a bit-field of specified length, a single octet, or a double octet), then there is a unique encoding which sums to the value being encoded.

**11.3.6** A minimum octet non-negative-binary-integer encoding of the whole number (which does not predetermine the number of octets to be used for the encoding) has a field which is a multiple of eight bits and also satisfies the condition that the leading eight bits of the field shall not all be zero unless the field is precisely eight bits long.

NOTE – This is a necessary and sufficient condition to produce a unique encoding.
