---
publish-telecom: true
publish-title: 11.5 Encoding of a constrained whole number
publish-path: ITU-T X.691
---


NOTE – (Tutorial) This subclause is referenced by other clauses, and itself references earlier clauses for the production of a non-negative-binary-integer or a 2's-complement-binary-integer encoding. For the UNALIGNED variant the value is always encoded in the minimum number of bits necessary to represent the range (defined in 11.5.3). The rest of this Note addresses the ALIGNED variant. Where the range is less than or equal to 255, the value encodes into a bit-field of the minimum size for the range. Where the range is exactly 256, the value encodes into a single octet octet-aligned bit-field. Where the range is 257 to 64K, the value encodes into a two octet octet-aligned bit-field. Where the range is greater than 64K, the range is ignored and the value encodes into an octet-aligned bit-field which is the minimum number of octets for the value. In this latter case, later procedures (see 11.9) also encode a length field (usually a single octet) to indicate the length of the encoding. For the other cases, the length of the encoding is independent of the value being encoded, and is not explicitly encoded.

**11.5.1** This subclause (11.5) specifies a mapping from a constrained whole number into either a bit-field (unaligned) or a bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant), and is invoked by later clauses in this Recommendation | International Standard.

**11.5.2** The procedures of this subclause are invoked only if a constrained whole number to be encoded is available, and the values of the lower bound, "lb", and the upper bound, "ub", have been determined from the type notation (after the application of PER-visible constraints).

NOTE – A lower bound cannot be determined if `MIN` evaluates to an infinite number, nor can an upper bound be determined if `MAX` evaluates to an infinite number. For example, no upper or lower bound can be determined for `INTEGER(MIN..MAX)`.

**11.5.3** Let "range" be defined as the integer value ("ub" – "lb" + 1), and let the value to be encoded be "n".

**11.5.4** If "range" has the value 1, then the result of the encoding shall be an empty bit-field (no bits).

**11.5.5** There are five other cases (leading to different encodings) to consider, where one applies to the UNALIGNED variant and four to the ALIGNED variant.

**11.5.6** In the case of the UNALIGNED variant the value ("n" – "lb") shall be encoded as a [non-negative-binary-integer](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md) in a bit field as specified in [11.3](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md.md) with the minimum number of bits necessary to represent the range.

NOTE – If "range" satisfies the inequality $2^m$ < "range" ≤ $2^{m + 1}$, then the number of bits = m + 1.

**11.5.7** In the case of the ALIGNED variant the encoding depends on whether:


- a) "range" is less than or equal to 255 (the bit-field case);
- b) "range" is exactly 256 (the one-octet case);
- c) "range" is greater than 256 and less than or equal to 64K (the two-octet case);
- d) "range" is greater than 64K (the indefinite length case).

**11.5.7.1** (The bit-field case.) If "range" is less than or equal to 255, then invocation of this subclause requires the generation of a bit-field with a number of bits as specified in the table below, and containing the value ("n" – "lb") as a non-negative-binary-integer encoding in a bit-field as specified in 11.3.


| "range" | Bit-field size (in bits) |
|:-|:-:|
| 2 | 1 |
| 3, 4 | 2 |
| 5, 6, 7, 8 | 3 |
| 9 to 16 | 4 |
| 17 to 32 | 5 |
| 33 to 64 | 6 |
| 65 to 128 | 7 |
| 129 to 255 | 8 |


**11.5.7.2** (The one-octet case.) If the range has a value of 256, then the value ("n" – "lb") shall be encoded in a one-octet bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) as a non-negative-binary-integer as specified in 11.3.

**11.5.7.3** (The two-octet case.) If the "range" has a value greater than or equal to 257 and less than or equal to 64K, then the value ("n" – "lb") shall be encoded in a two-octet bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) as a non-negative-binary-integer encoding as specified in 11.3.

**11.5.7.4** (The indefinite length case.) Otherwise, the value ("n" – "lb") shall be encoded as a non-negative-binary-integer in a bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) with the minimum number of octets as specified in 11.3, and the number of octets "len" used in the encoding is used by other clauses that reference this subclause to specify an encoding of the length.

