---
publish-telecom: true
---

NOTE 1 – (Tutorial) The procedures of this subclause are invoked when an explicit length field is needed for some part of the encoding regardless of whether the length count is bounded above (by PER-visible constraints) or not. The part of the encoding to which the length applies may be a bit string (with the length count in bits), an octet string (with the length count in octets), a known-multiplier character string (with the length count in characters), or a list of fields (with the length count in components of a sequence-of or set-of).

NOTE 2 – (Tutorial) In the case of the ALIGNED variant if the length count is bounded above by an upper bound that is less than 64K, then the [constrained whole number](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md) encoding is used for the length. For sufficiently small ranges the result is a bit-field, otherwise the unconstrained length ("n" say) is encoded into an octet-aligned bit-field in one of three ways (in order of increasing size):

- a) ("n" less than 128) a single octet containing "n" with bit 8 set to zero;
- b) ("n" less than 16K) two octets containing "n" with bit 8 of the first octet set to 1 and bit 7 set to zero;
- c) (large "n") a single octet containing a count "m" with bit 8 set to 1 and bit 7 set to 1. The count "m" is one to four, and the length indicates that a fragment of the material follows (a multiple "m" of 16K items). For all values of "m", the fragment is then followed by another length encoding for the remainder of the material.

NOTE 3 – (Tutorial) In the UNALIGNED variant, if the length count is bounded above by an upper bound that is less than 64K, then the [constrained whole number](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md) encoding is used to encode the length in the minimum number of bits necessary to represent the range. Otherwise, the unconstrained length ("n" say) is encoded into a bit-field in the manner described above in Note 2.

**11.9.1** This subclause is not invoked if, in accordance with the specification of later clauses, the value of the length determinant, "n", is fixed by the type definition (constrained by PER-visible constraints) to a value less than 64K.

**11.9.2** This subclause is invoked for addition to the field-list of a field, or list of fields, preceded by a length determinant "n" which determines either:

- a) the length in octets of an associated field (units are octets); or
- b) the length in bits of an associated field (units are bits); or
- c) the number of component encodings in an associated list of fields (units are components of a set-of or sequence-of); or
- d) the number of characters in the value of an associated known-multiplier character string type (units are characters).

**11.9.3** (ALIGNED variant) The procedures for the ALIGNED variant are specified in [11.9.3.1](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^2493ea) to [11.9.3.8.4](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^1b22eb). (The procedures for the UNALIGNED variant are specified in [11.9.4](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^0096fc).) <a id="^4e84d0"></a>

**11.9.3.1** As a result of the analysis of the type definition (specified in later clauses) the length determinant (a whole number "n") will have been determined to be either: <a id="^2493ea"></a>

- a) a [normally small length](./11.6%20Encoding%20of%20a%20normally%20small%20non-negative%20whole%20number.md) with a lower bound "lb" equal to one; or <a id="^832ecb"></a>
- b) a [constrained whole number](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md) with a lower bound "lb" (greater than or equal to zero), and an upper bound "ub" less than 64K; or
- c) a [semi-constrained whole number](./11.7%20Encoding%20of%20a%20semi-constrained%20whole%20number.md) with a lower bound "lb" (greater than or equal to zero), or a [constrained whole number](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md) with a lower bound "lb" (greater than or equal to zero) and an upper bound "ub" greater than or equal to 64K.

**11.9.3.2** The subclauses invoking the procedures of this subclause will have determined a value for "lb", the lower bound of the length (this is zero if the length is unconstrained), and for "ub", the upper bound of the length. "ub" is unset if there is no upper bound determinable from PER-visible constraints.

**11.9.3.3** Where the length determinant is a constrained whole number with "ub" less than 64K, then the field-list shall have appended to it the encoding of the [constrained whole number](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md) for the length determinant as specified in [11.5](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md). If "n" is non-zero, this shall be followed by the associated field or list of fields, completing these procedures. If "n" is zero there shall be no further addition to the field-list, completing these procedures. <a id="^620347"></a>

NOTE 1 – For example:

```
A ::= IA5String (SIZE (3..6))         -- Length is encoded in a 2-bit bit-field.
B ::= IA5String (SIZE (40000..40254)) -- Length is encoded in an 8-bit bit-field.
C ::= IA5String (SIZE (0..32000))     -- Length is encoded in a 2-octet 
                                      -- bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant).
D ::= IA5String (SIZE (64000))        -- Length is not encoded.
```

NOTE 2 – The effect of making no addition in the case of "n" equals zero is that padding to an octet boundary does not occur when these procedures are invoked to add an octet-aligned-bit-field of zero length, unless required by [11.5](./11.5%20Encoding%20of%20a%20constrained%20whole%20number.md).

**11.9.3.4** Where the length determinant is a normally small length and "n" is less than or equal to 64, a single-bit bit-field shall be appended to the field-list with the bit set to 0, and the value "n–1" shall be encoded as a [non-negative-binary-integer](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md) into a 6-bit bit-field. This shall be followed by the associated field, completing these procedures. If "n" is greater than 64, a single-bit bit-field shall be appended to the field-list with the bit set to 1, followed by the encoding of "n" as an unconstrained length determinant followed by the associated field, according to the procedures of [11.9.3.5](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^37a5cd) to [11.9.3.8.4](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^1b22eb). <a id="^836210"></a>

NOTE – Normally small lengths are only used to indicate the length of the bitmap that prefixes the extension addition values of a set or sequence type.

**11.9.3.5** Otherwise (unconstrained length, or large "ub"), "n" is encoded and appended to the field-list followed by the associated fields as specified below. <a id="^37a5cd"></a>

NOTE – The lower bound, "lb", does not affect the length encodings specified in [11.9.3.6](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^17bdfc) to [11.9.3.8.4](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^1b22eb).

**11.9.3.6** If "n" is less than or equal to 127, then "n" shall be encoded as a [non-negative-binary-integer](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md) (using the procedures of [11.3](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md)) into bits 7 (most significant) to 1 (least significant) of a single octet and bit 8 shall be set to zero. This shall be appended to the field-list as a bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) followed by the associated field or list of fields, completing these procedures. <a id="^17bdfc"></a>

NOTE – For example, if in the following a value of A is 4 characters long, and that of B is 4 items long:

```
A ::= IA5String
B ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (4..123456)) OF INTEGER
```

both values are encoded with the length octet occupying one octet, and with the most significant set to 0 to indicate that the length is less than or equal to 127:

```
+---+---------+-------------------+
| 0 | 0000100 | 4 character items |
+---+---------+-------------------+
	  Length    Value
```

**11.9.3.7** If "n" is greater than 127 and less than 16K, then "n" shall be encoded as a [non-negative-binary-integer](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md) (using the procedures of [11.3](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md)) into bit 6 of octet one (most significant) to bit 1 of octet two (least significant) of a two-octet bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) with bit 8 of the first octet set to 1 and bit 7 of the first octet set to zero. This shall be appended to the field-list followed by the associated field or list of fields, completing these procedures.

NOTE – If in the example of [11.9.3.6](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#^11.9.3.6) a value of A is 130 characters long, and a value of B is 130 items long, both values are encoded with the length component occupying 2 octets, and with the two most significant bits (bits 8 and 7) of the octet set to 10 to indicate that the length is greater than 127 but less than 16K.
```
+----+-----------------+----------------------+
| 00 | 000000 10000010 | 130 characters/items |
+----+-----------------+----------------------+
       Length            Value
```

**11.9.3.8** If "n" is greater than or equal to 16K, then there shall be appended to the field-list a single octet in a bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) with bit 8 set to 1 and bit 7 set to 1, and bits 6 to 1 encoding the value 1, 2, 3 or 4 as a [non-negative-binary-integer](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md) (using the procedures of [11.8](./11.8%20Encoding%20of%20an%20unconstrained%20whole%20number.md)). This single octet shall be followed by part of the associated field or list of fields, as specified below.

NOTE – The value of bits 6 to 1 is restricted to 1-4 (instead of the theoretical limits of 0-63) so as to limit the number of items that an implementation has to have knowledge of to a more manageable number (64K instead of 1024K).

**11.9.3.8.1** The value of bits 6 to 1 (1 to 4) shall be multiplied by 16K giving a count ("m" say). The choice of the integer in bits 6 to 1 shall be the maximum allowed value such that the associated field or list of fields contains more than or exactly "m" octets, bits, components or characters, as appropriate.

NOTE 1 – The unfragmented form handles lengths up to 16K. The fragmentation therefore provides for lengths up to 64K with a granularity of 16K.

NOTE 2 – If in the example of [11.9.3.6](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^17bdfc) a value of "B" is 144K + 1 (i.e., 64K + 64K + 16K + 1) items long, the value is fragmented, with the two most significant bits (bits 8 and 7) of the first three fragments set to 11 to indicate that one to four blocks each of 16K items follow, and that another length component will follow the last block of each fragment:
```
+----+--------+-----------+----+--------+-----------+----+--------+-----------+---+---------+--------+
| 11 | 000100 | 64K items | 11 | 000100 | 64K items | 11 | 000001 | 16K items | 0 | 0000001 | 1 item |
+----+--------+-----------+----+--------+-----------+----+--------+-----------+---+---------+--------+
       Length   Value            Length   Value            Length   Value           Length    Value
```

**11.9.3.8.2** That part of the contents specified by "m" shall then be appended to the field-list as either:

- a)	a single bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) of "m" octets containing the first "m" octets of the associated field, for units which are octets; or
- b)	a single bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) of "m" bits containing the first "m" bits of the associated field, for units which are bits; or
- c)	the list of fields encoding the first "m" components in the associated list of fields, for units which are components of a set-of or sequence-of types; or
- d)	a single bit-field (octet-aligned in the ALIGNED variant) of "m" characters containing the first "m" characters of the associated field, for units which are characters.

**11.9.3.8.3** The procedures of 11.9 shall then be reapplied to add the remaining part of the associated field or list of fields to the field-list with a length which is a [semi-constrained whole number](./11.7%20Encoding%20of%20a%20semi-constrained%20whole%20number.md) equal to ("n" – "m") with a lower bound of zero.

NOTE – If the last fragment that contains part of the encoded value has a length that is an exact multiple of 16K, it is followed by a final fragment that consists only of a single octet length component set to 0.

**11.9.3.8.4** The addition of only a part of the associated field(s) to the field-list with reapplication of these procedures is called the fragmentation procedure. <a id="^1b22eb"></a>

**11.9.4** (UNALIGNED variant) The procedures for the UNALIGNED variant are specified in [11.9.4.1](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^0096fc) to [11.9.4.2](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^61afc1) (the procedures for the ALIGNED variant are specified in [11.9.3](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^4e84d0)).

**11.9.4.1** If the length determinant "n" to be encoded is a constrained whole number with "ub" less than 64K, then ("n"–"lb") shall be encoded as a [non-negative-binary-integer](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md) (as specified in [11.3](./11.3%20Encoding%20as%20a%20non-negative-binary-integer.md)) using the minimum number of bits necessary to encode the "range" ("ub" – "lb" + 1), unless "range" is 1, in which case there shall be no length encoding. If "n" is non-zero this shall be followed by an associated field or list of fields, completing these procedures. If "n" is zero there shall be no further addition to the field-list, completing these procedures. <a id="^0096fc"></a>

NOTE – If "range" satisfies the inequality $2^m$ < "range" ≤ $2^{m + 1}$, then the number of bits in the length determinant is m + 1.

**11.9.4.2** If the length determinant "n" to be encoded is a normally small length, or a constrained whole number with "ub" greater than or equal to 64K, or is a semi-constrained whole number, then "n" shall be encoded as specified in [11.9.3.4](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^836210) to [11.9.3.8.4](11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md#user-content-^1b22eb). <a id="^61afc1"></a>

NOTE – Thus, if "ub" is greater than or equal to 64K, the encoding of the length determinant is the same as it would be if the length were unconstrained.
