---
publish-telecom: true
---

**20.1** PER-visible constraints can constrain the number of components of the sequence-of type.

**20.2** Let the maximum number of components in the sequence-of (as determined by PER-visible constraints) be "ub" components and the minimum number of components be "lb". If there is no finite maximum or "ub" is greater than or equal to 64K we say that "ub" is unset. If there is no constraint on the minimum, then "lb" has the value zero. Let the number of components in the actual sequence-of value to be encoded be "n" components.

**20.3** The encoding of each component of the sequence-of will generate a number of fields to be appended to the field-list for the sequence-of type.

**20.4** If there is a PER-visible constraint and an extension marker is present in it, a single bit shall be added to the field-list in a bit-field of length one. The bit shall be set to 1 if the number of components in this encoding is not within the range of the extension root, and zero otherwise. In the former case [11.9](./11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md) shall be invoked to add the [length determinant](./11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md) as a semi-constrained whole number to the field-list, followed by the component values. In the latter case the length and value shall be encoded as if the extension marker is not present.

**20.5** If the number of components is fixed ("ub" equals "lb") and "ub" is less than 64K, then there shall be no length determinant for the sequence-of, and the fields of each component shall be appended in turn to the field-list of the sequence-of.

**20.6*0 Otherwise, the procedures of [11.9](./11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md) shall be invoked to add the list of fields generated by the "n" components to the field-list, preceded by a [length determinant](./11.9%20General%20rules%20for%20encoding%20a%20length%20determinant.md) equal to "n" components as a constrained whole number if "ub" is set, and as a semi-constrained whole number if "ub" is unset. "lb" is as determined above.

NOTE 1 – The fragmentation procedures may apply after 16K, 32K, 48K, or 64K components.

NOTE 2 – The break-points for fragmentation are between fields. The number of bits prior to a break-point are not necessarily a multiple of eight.
